---
layout: post
categories: Britain, Drama
title: Downton Abbey
---

+ Season 2

Downton Abbey -- Original Castle: Highclere Castle in UK
At its potent.
A time of huge exuberance


It goes under the [epaulette]
to be [Colonel] of the North.
[Jack-in-the-box]
as a [nasty shock]
for tonight's [revels]
at tuppence a slice
help me do battle with this [monstrosity]
they don't want to [tempt fate]
a rough awakening
scrubbed a floor
ladling soup down the throat of some unfortunate
Don't be daft
I ache to hear my heels clicking on the pavement
May I present ... 介绍某人
[grunt]
going to see eye-to-eye on this 
It is horrid.
Daddy is a solicitor.
There's no convolescence at all
Why does everything go so lumpy
Some hotel with a tart
It's a pack of lies
The only ruin that I recognitze is to be without you
He'll in the full fig
we old codgers have our work cut out for us, keeping spirit high at home.
you can drop the last veil
His wife was planning to engulf this house in scandal
a hawker of a newspaper scandal to stay as a guest in this house?
That's nectar

Can you hitch up the plough
Mr. Carson doesn't spontaneously combust
He's got broader shoulders
give you a slap from the start
We'd rather know the worst than wonder
steady on
I hope the train was not too tiring
Mama is incorrigible
Safe and sound
I am a trooper
touch wood
He seemed so solid when I met him, even taciturn, but now he's bundle of nerves.
I let myself get flustered
I'd rather face it than dodge it
But even I can see the purpose of the heart is not simply pumping blood.
Well on the way to a peerage
You must be aware of its vagaries
You've got fight your corner
thanks to my saviors
They do say honesty is the best policy
your proposal is improving by leaps and bounds
there's more savage and more cruel than I can imagine
Resuscitation in the pantry
prodding and prying around the house
she's found her metier

a complimentary [convalescent] home
Don't loiter
to chug 
as if you are going to gobble her up.
one of her toadies in to run things.
You seemed a bit preoccupied
men are killed and maimed and blow into pieces
can you look after the crumble
I hadn't cast you as Florence Nightingale
No names, no pack drill
no one tucks better than I do
save Matthew from the clutches of a scheming harlot
be so gleeful
to play second fiddle
Downton is [turned upside down] with the coming of wounded soldier. 

war breaks down barriers when peace time re-erect them.
I have torn up the schedule. 
That's very drastic
bell tolling
[Tensions flare] between Isobel and Cora
before you [strain] your eyes
Is william your beau?
muffled gigging
help me through the vale of shadow
You're a sight for sore eyes
I hold a grudge longer than you

someone walked over me grave
They've patched me up.
Don't keep anything back.
get shafted. 
The dcree nisi makes us safe
scoffing in frustration
Sometime, we must let the blow fall by degrees
The devil is the detail
wheezing
I wonder if I might have a word, Mr. Grathem.
less groggy
I am blubbing
He's a love wee chap
extenuating circumstances
I was paid out by my folly
an object of ridicule and pity
As my futre wife, you are entitled to be in my debt.
I won't steal away your life, go home, think of me as dead, remember me as I was.
Your lot did.
I am not shocked, I am just stunned, and desperately sad
that's very high-handed
This boy is in extremis.
I hope it is not vulgar in me to suggest that you find some way to overcome your scruples.
to see if the viscar is waiting for us

A wounded officer come to recuperate and unsettles everything 
Turkey's about to capitulate
you look forward this brave new world of Mrs. Crawley's imaginings?
she hold you in high regard
she's such a marytr
hoarding
Your lots buy it
My lot inherits it
Lord can prevail his kind nature
a bit put by
you are very preoccupied tonight
It'll be a huge wrench for me to leave Downton
wincing in pain
now you've struck a chord
your experience renders your value beyond price
you're ganging on me
this man is fake and imposter
Could I prevail on you to take me back to my room
NOt a jot
since I chivvied you
sometimes fate knows better, my lady
Like some latter-day Iphigenia, doomed to push his chair through all eternity?
you can jilt me

but a reason to sack him
when push comes to shove, I'd rather do it myself
got a shed in the village
I'll get a banger to deliver the stuff
why not a dressing gown
if one spent the day on a chaise longue
Lady Mary is an uppity minx who's the author of her own misfortunes
She was a guinea a minute then (Lady Mary)
start to feel a tingling in my legs
stay outside in the game larder
All this unbridled joy has given me quite an appetite
It was arsenic
We'd been delighted
I am ready to travel, and you are my ticket, to get away from this house
Most marvalous person
let me get on with this travesty
she's badly shaken, she's lost anything.
this is just the sprat to catch the mackerel
Marriage is a long business
she's eloped
It's a cake, not a souffle
Oh Pipe down
It's better to do it in the broad daylight than sneak off life a thief in the night.

Will Branson's plans rattle everyone
when you dabble in the black market
You're trespassing on our generosity
I don't bow and scrape
she won't summon him here tonight
to be booted out
I bid you all a good day
Mary's beau was a mesalliance, but compared to this he's practically a hapsburg
I will be your next of kin, and you can't deny me that.
Gramophone
You'll be groggy for at least a week
wheezing
his mother succumbed to Spanish flu
as the nameless offshoot of a drudge
I am very grateful
retching
It's a strange disease with sudden, savage changes
With this ring, I plight thee my troth, as a symbol of all we have promised. And all that we share
Earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust. In sure and certain hope of the resurrection to eternal life through our Loard Jesus Christ, shall change our ville body that it may be like unto His glorious body according to the mighty working whereby He is able to subdue all things to Himself.
The aristocracy has not survived by its intransigence.

My husband is on trial for his life.
Lawyers are always confident before the verdict
charades - a game?
a sous chef
snap you up
unscratched
I dont' think pheasants
Grand me that
SHe's crossed the Rubicon
have a Fenian grandchild
I hope London wasn't too grim
I feel as old as Methuselah
He does rather beg to be teased
You gave him the thrill of the chase
as a part of the bucking-up bridage
swear not to fly off the handle and try not be to hurt
I am so dreadfully sorry about today.
sets your teeth on the edge of it
the world is falling on our ears.
hooking her out
be disappointed in me.
He's been reprieved
to fortify my coming ordeal.