---
layout: post
categories: Britain, Drama
title: Downton Abbey
---

+ Season 1
whistle [blows]

-no rest for the wicked
-Nothing in life is sure.

-Every mountain is unclimbable until someone climbs it. So every ship is unsinkable until it sinks

Butler, footman, valet

You should manage and [entail] that.  
a [nastier] woman
has [hailed] as master
-The entail must be smashed in its entirety.
-Your father tied the know so tight.
-I beg your pardon 

it's [iniquitous]

-Don't catch me out. 
-News travels fast.
hand me that [tray].
She'll join you for dinner. 
Now, are you pleased to be with me alone laday?
don't [pry].
I'll not be [coy].
one swallow doesn't make summer.
[hollow out] the title.

-Have you been happy?  Have I made you happy? 

You'll [mend] it now.
To progress in your chosen career, William, you must remeber that a good servent at all times retains a sense of pride and dignity that reflects the pride and dignity of the family he serves

Like a chump
the storks make them.

You're sailing perilously close to the wind.
Don't push your luck
Glad to catch you alone
It's a wicked law.

Fetch Mr. Carson, as fast as you can
stones that will crack in the frost

Double acts on the halls
There's no need for melodramatic

My deal fellow, we are have chapters we would rather keep unpublished
I write to only huff and puff

We all have different parts to play, and we must all be allowed to play them.
William isn't a bad lad.

Our hospital must surely grow and thrive with two such doughty champions united as they are by the strongest ties of all -- family and friendship
[gasps]
you all can compse a better letter 
wants to fawn skirts...
Then there's nothing more to be said.

I'd offer you a life if I could -- 提供帮助的说法
I have no intention to usurping your authority.
I am in charge of your welfare.
She wants to keep it private, not secret 
Are you hiring and sacking now, Miss O'Brien?
I am too busy living in life
(door bell [chimes])
you can't [slack]
He's quite capable of doing flining alone, I'll assure you.
dry her off(让她擦干眼泪)
you are as white as sheet

Fussing, he's rather a dandy
hair reeking of pomade.
Lady Mary Crawley, I presume. -- you presume right
My mount's as jumpy as a deb at her first ball.
Sorry to be disheveled.
work from dawn to dusk in a cramped and gloomy office.
So you hanker for the days of serfdom.-- I hanker for a simlpe world.
Sometimes we must endure some little pain, in order to achieve satisfaction. -- 邀请别人但是又保留不舒服的地方的可能性
I am in the grip of madness.
I'll be ruined and notorious, a laughingstock, a social pariah.
I am not a vain man, I do not consider myself a very interesting person. I feel it's important that my future wife should think me so. A woman who finds me boring could never love me, and I believe marriage should be based on love. At least at the start.
Your instincts do you credit.
as dead as a doornail.
Women, they are finer and more fraigile than our own.
We're all behind you, lady. The staff. We're all on your side.
We all carry scars, Mr. Bates, inside or out. You're no different to the rest of us.
Good [riddance].
The new [chauffeur]
So it is a little, boring, so to speak.
She's been terribly down in the mouth lately.
Putting it bluntly
A swivel chair.
He's so agile, isn't he.
They live in wigwams. -- things are differnet in America.
Children squealing. 
How's life treated you?
Clothes are a valet's [perk], not a chauffeur's
very Droll
If you don't lay off, I will punch your shining teeth through the back of your skull
[chafing] dishes now.
with the [frock]
One whiff of reform, and she hears the rattle of the guillotine.
My imagination is running riot.
You must have thought me an awful prig when I first arrived.
Thomas is a troubled soul
Stop flanneling and get on
XXx is as dull as paint
saw me nicking a bottle of wine
It seemed impertinent somehow.
We'll stay with the raspberry meringue.
I want to say something before I ring the gong.
Don't be such a [grouch].
She'll [muddle] through with Daisy for help.
She who laughs last laughs longest

[jeering]
There was quite a brouhaha
I want to do some canvassing
silly chump
It seems His Excellency has made him privy to a scurrilous story concerning 
Deny these thing is only to throw paraffin onto the flames
one minute the warlord, the next a lovelorn poet, A poet in need of an empire
Why are all your causes so steeped in gloom
This family might be approaching dissolution.
bearing up
I don't care [a fig] about rules
IT's an unfair rumor which needs to be scotched.
I'm afraid Lord Grantham will hit the roof
fastidious about doing things properly, are you?
I masqueraded as a man of honor and integrity
We'll give her till the start of the [grouse]

I don't want the poor woman sacked.
Unusual - Biblical
She's looking very fidgety lately.
Do you love me enough to spend the rest of your life with me?
Hark at him
God knows I wish the best for you.
Don't crow at me
