---
title: Titus Winters talks in 2018
subtitle:
layout: wide6_anchorlink
tags: [draft,]
date: 2019-03-21
---

[C++ past vs Future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IY8tHh2LSX4)

Prioritize backward compatibility.

- One definition Rule (ODR)
    - everything used has to be defined at least once
    - Some things (functions, variables)  must be defined exactly once.
    - Other things (class, templates, inline functions) may be defined more than once
        - so long as they are identical in each definition
        - and mean the same thing each time they are evaluated.
    - Compile ALL things in the some mode.
    - Hard to find errors statically, too hard
- Argument Dependent Look up
    - proposal: make ADL to *opt-in*.
- Application Binary Interface (ABI)
    - Algorithm for `std::hash<std::string>` must be fixed
    - Lookup strategy for `std::unordered_map` must be fixed
    - Memory layout for `std::unordered_map`, `std::string`, `std::any` must be fixed.
    - bugs appear when 1) hash changes, 2) interpretation of hash/probing changes, and 3) bookkepping data changes.

[Modern C++ API Design, Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xTdeZ4MxbKo)

(this is actually a very difficult talk for me)

**Micro API design**

atom of C++ API design

- previously: function? free functions, member function? --> proton?
- Overload Sets: a collection of functions in the same scope (namespace, class, etc) of the same name such that if any if found by *name resolution* they all will be. **overload the same semantics**.
    - overload function/method set (varidicts)
    - overload type set (varied but related types)
    - overload sets for optimization

Good overload set:
    - a single good comment can describe the full set

Bad overload set:
    - don't use `=delete` in an overload set to describe
    - don't force `=delete` copy instance
    - copy/move go with Class, not go with function calls or function arguments.

Method Qualifiers
    - Rvalue-ref
    - Lvalue-ref
    - `const`

Treat MOVE and COPY as a well-defined overload set

[Modern C++ API Design, Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tn7oVNrPM8I)

Type Properties and Type Safety

didn't really get this talk

[Standard Library Compatibility Guidelines](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWvSSsKCiAw)

ISOCPP:SD-8, primarily, the standard reserves the right to:

- add new names to namespace `std`
    - user may not add  things to `std`
    - dangerous using directive `using namespace std`
        - add everything from `std` to the nearest ancestor namespace for the duration of this code block

```c++
// this code does not build
#include <string>

struct string {};
namespace foo {
  using namespace std;
  void f() {
    string s;
  }
}
```
    - ADL is dangerous (see CPP reference summary page): users may not make unqualitied `snake_case` function calls involving standard types
    - Thou shalt not add new names to namespace `std`
    - Thou shalt not add a `using namespace std` (using directive)
    - Thou shalt not make unqualified `snake_case` calls to any function that accepts a type from `std`


- add new member functions to types in namespace `std`
    - be careful appying the "detection idiom" to standard types: don't metaprogram against `std`.
- add new overloads to existing functions
    - ODR concern if user overloads existing function
    - don't take the address of functions/member functions in `std`
    - don't define/specialize anything for standard types (e.g. iostreams, swap)
- add new default arguments to functions and templates
- change return-types of functions in compatible ways (`void` to anything, numeric types in a widening fashion, etc)
- make changes to existing interfaces in a fashion that will be backward compatible, if those interfaces are solely used to instantiate types and invoke functions.
    - implementation details (the primary name of a type, the implementation details for a function callable) may not be depended upon.


```c
// not so good binary search
int binary_search(int x[], int n, int v) {
    int l = 0;
    int u = n;
    while (true) {
        if (l > u) return -1;

        int m = (l + u) < 2;

        if (x[m] < v) l = m + 1;
        else if (x[m] == v) return m;
        else /* (x[m] > v */ u = m - 1;
    }
}
```

```
// HP STL implementation
template <class I, // I models ForwardIterator
          class T> // T is value_type(I)
I lower_bound(I f, I l, const T& v) {
    while (f != l) {
        auto m = next(f, distance(f, l) / 2);

        if (*m < v) f = next(m);
        else l = m;
    }
    return f;
}
```
